h1. Wonderdog

Wonderdog is a bulkloader for Elastic Search.

h2. Requirements

h3. Hadoop cluster setup:

Wonderdog makes use of hadoop to do its bulk loading so you'll need to have a fully functional hadoop cluster lying around. However, since wonderdog uses hadoop's distributed cache to distribute configuration and other files, no additional configuration of the hadoop cluster is necessary. 

h3. ElasticSearch cluster setup:

Well, you'll have to have an elasticsearch cluster setup somewhere. There is far better documentation for doing that elsewhere, namely the elasticsearch "guide":http://www.elasticsearch.org/guide/

h2. Usage

h3. Native Hadoop TSV Loader

**Note**: the tsv loader is deprecated. Instead, use the ElasticSearchOutputFormat coupled with either Apache Pig storefunc (ElasticSearchIndex or ElasticSearchJsonIndex).

Once you've got a working set up you should be ready to launch your bulkload process. The best way to explain is with an example. Say you've got a tsv file of user records (name,login,email,description) and you want to index all the fields. Assuming you're going to write to an index called @users@ with objects of type @user@ (elasticsearch will create this object automatically the first time you upload one). The workflow is as follows:

* Create the @users@ index:

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=users create_index
</code></pre>

* Upload the data

<pre><code>
# Will only work if the hadoop elasticsearch processes can discover the running elasticsearch cluster
bin/wonderdog --rm --index_name=users --bulk_size=4096 --object_type=user --field_names=name,login,email,description --id_field=1 /hdfs/path/to/users.tsv /tmp/failed_records/users
</code></pre>

Notice the output path. When the bulk indexing job runs it is possible for index requests to fail for various reasons (too much load, etc). In this case the documents that failed are simply written to the hdfs so they can be retried in a later job.

* Refresh Index

After the bulk load is finished you'll want to refresh the index so your documents will actually be searchable:

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=users refresh_index
</code></pre>

* Snapshot Index

You'll definitely want to do this after the bulk load finishes so you don't lose any data in case of cluster failure:

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=users snapshot_index
</code></pre>


* Bump the replicas for the index up to at least one.

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=users --replicas=1 set_replicas
</code></pre>

This will take a while to finish and the cluster health will show yellow until it does.

* Optimize the index

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=users optimize_index
</code></pre>

This will also take a while to finish.

h4. TSV loader command-line options

* @index_name@ - Index to write data to. It does not have to exist ahead of time
* @object_type@ - Type of object to index. The mapping for this object does not have to exist ahead of time. Fields will be updated dynamically by elasticsearch.
* @field_names@ - A comma separated list of field names describing the tsv record input
* @id_field@ - Index of field to use as object id (counting from 0; default 1), use -1 if there is no id field
* @bulk_size@ - Number of records per bulk request sent to elasticsearch cluster
* @es_home@ - Path to elasticsearch installation, read from the ES_HOME environment variable if it's set
* @es_config@ - Path to elasticsearch config file (@elasticsearch.yml@)
* @rm@ - Remove existing output? (true or leave blank)
* @hadoop_home@ - Path to hadoop installation, read from the HADOOP_HOME environment variable if it's set
* @min_split_size@ - Min split size for maps

h3. Using the ElasticSearchIndex and ElasticSearchJsonIndex Pig Store Functions

The most up-to-date (and simplest) way to store data into elasticsearch with hadoop is to use the Pig Store Functions. Here you've got two options.

h4. ElasticSearchIndex

This allows you to store tabular data (eg. tsv, csv) into elasticsearch.

<pre><code>
register target/wonderdog.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/elasticsearch-0.14.2.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/jline-0.9.94.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/jna-3.2.7.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/log4j-1.2.15.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-analyzers-3.0.3.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-core-3.0.3.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-fast-vector-highlighter-3.0.3.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-highlighter-3.0.3.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-memory-3.0.3.jar
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-queries-3.0.3.jar

%default INDEX 'ufo_sightings'
%default OBJ   'ufo_sighting'        

ufo_sightings = LOAD '/data/domestic/aliens/ufo_awesome.tsv' AS (sighted_at:long, reported_at:long, location:chararray, shape:chararray, duration:chararray, description:chararray);
STORE ufo_sightings INTO 'es://$INDEX/$OBJ' USING com.infochimps.elasticsearch.pig.ElasticSearchIndex('-1', '1000');
</code></pre>

Other constructors for the udf include:

* ElasticSearchIndex()
* ElasticSearchIndex(idField, bulkSize)
* ElasticSearchIndex(idField, bulkSize, esConfig)
* ElasticSearchIndex(idField, bulkSize, esConfig, esPlugins)

where:

@idField@   = Which field of the record to use as the record id. If none is passed in
              then the record is assumed to have no id.
@bulkSize@  = Number of records for ElasticSearchOutputFormat to batch up before sending
              a bulk index request to Elastic Search. Default: 1000.
@esConfig@  = Full path to local elasticsearch.yml. Default: /etc/elasticsearch/elasticsearch.yml
@esPlugins@ = Full path to local elastic search plugins dir. Default: /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/plugins

Note that elasticsearch.yml and the plugins directory are distributed to every machine in the cluster automatically via hadoop's distributed cache mechanism.

h4. ElasticSearchJsonIndex

This allows you to store arbitrary json data into elasticsearch.

<pre><code>
register target/wonderdog-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/elasticsearch-0.14.2.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/jline-0.9.94.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/jna-3.2.7.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/log4j-1.2.15.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-analyzers-3.0.3.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-core-3.0.3.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-fast-vector-highlighter-3.0.3.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-highlighter-3.0.3.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-memory-3.0.3.jar;
register /usr/local/share/elasticsearch/lib/lucene-queries-3.0.3.jar;        
        
%default INDEX 'foo_test'
%default OBJ   'foo'        

foo = LOAD 'test/foo.json' AS (data:chararray);
STORE foo INTO 'es://$INDEX/$OBJ' USING com.infochimps.elasticsearch.pig.ElasticSearchJsonIndex('-1', '10');
</code></pre>

h2. Admin

There are a number of convenience commands in @bin/estool@. Enumerating a few:

* Print status of all indices as a json hash to the terminal

<pre><code>
# See everything (tmi)
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> status

# Just see index level stuff on docs and replicas:
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> status | grep -C10 number_of_replicas
</code></pre>

* Check cluster health (red,green,yellow,relocated shards, etc)

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> health
</code></pre>

* Set replicas for an index

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=<index_name> --replicas=<num_replicas> set_replicas
</code></pre>

* Optimize an index

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=<index_name> optimize_index
</code></pre>

* Snapshot an index

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=<index_name> snapshot_index
</code></pre>

* Delete an index

You'd better be sure.

<pre><code>
bin/estool --host=<elasticsearch_host> --index_name=<index_name> delete_index
</code></pre>


And so on. Most of the common rest api operations have be mapped into estool.







----------------------------------- THIS NEEDS CLEANED UP AND TURNED INTO A COHERENT SECTION, RIGHT NOW IT IS INCOMPREHENSIBLE ----------------------------
h3. How to choose shards, replicas and cluster size: Rules of Thumb.

sh      = shards
rf      = replication factor. replicas = 0 implies rf = 1, or 1 replica of each shard.

pm      = running data_esnode processes per machine
N       = number of machines

n_cores = number of cpu cores per machine
n_disks = number of disks per machine



* You must have at least as many data_esnodes as 
  Mandatory:  (sh * rf) < (pm * N)


  Shards:     shard size < 10GB


More shards = more parallel writes



curl -XPUT "`cat /etc/motd | grep IP | cuttab 2`:9200/tweet-2010q1/_settings" -d '{ "index":{ "number_of_replicas":1 } }'
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

